README.md, before:

# MTRACE

## Building

### Pintool

```bash
MTRACE_DIR=pin/source/tools/mtrace
mkdir $MTRACE_DIR
cp mtrace.cpp makefile.rules $MTRACE_DIR
cd $MTRACE_DIR
make
```

### Golang

Download and install Golang.

```
go get github.com/dgryski/go-metro github.com/dgryski/go-minhash github.com/dgryski/go-spooky
go build minhash.go
```

## Usage

### MTRACE

Memory tracing swiss army knife.

```
-b  [default 0]
        trace reads and writes
-c  [default 0]
        count of allocations
-cs [default 0]
        describe the callstack hashes
-e  [default ""]
        callstack type to focus on
-f  [default 0]
        log memory related functions (malloc, mmap, brk, etc.) as they are hit");
-g  [default 0]
        address of lexer::getChar function in libpoppler
-i  [default 0]
        log the basic block head address
-l  [default 0]
        list allocs
-m  [default ""]
        image name to restrict rw tracing to
-ms [default ""]
        sequence to match before enabling rw tracing
-o  [default ]
        specify file name for mtrace output
-t  [default 0]
        alloc histogram based on callstack
-x  [default 0]
        alloc histogram based on callstack and size
-y  [default 0]
        alloc histogram based on size
-n  [default ""]
        inference type definition file
-r  [default ""]
        r/w filter file
```

**`-b`** Logs all memory reads and writes to heap objects. Outputs objects as `callstack_hash,size,rw_pattern` at the end of execution.

**`-c`** Count of calls to malloc.

**`-cs`** This will output the callstack for each used callstack hash as it is encountered. Callstacks are output as multiple lines of `callstack_hash=image_hash@relative_address`. Like `-i`, image hashes will be explained automatically when using this.

**`-e`** This restricts tracing to a single callstack hash.

**`-f`** Traces functions related to memory allocations.

**`-g`** This option will print characters as they are returned from `getChar`. The argument is the address of the `lexer::getChar` function in libpoppler. Accepts decimal or `0x`-prefixed hexadecimal.

**`-i`** Traces the instruction pointer at a basic block level. Format is `image_hash@relative_addr`. Image hashes and their input string are output as they are encoutered.

**`-l`** Lists allocations as the occur. Format is (`size,callstack_hash`). Can be used with **`-cs`** to explain the callstack hashes.

**`-m`** This will restrict read/write tracing (`-b`) to a specific image (e.g. libpoppler). It is a substring search. 

**`-ms`** When used, this sequence will need to be output by getChar returns before memory reads and writes will be stored. Required `-g` and `-b`.

**`-o`** Output file name. Default `stdout`.

**`-t`** Allocation histogram based on callstack hash. Can be used with `-cs` to explain the callstack hashes.

**`-x`** Allocation histogram based on callstack hash and size. Can be used with `-cs` to explain the callstack hashes.

**`-y`** Allocation histogram based allocation size. 

**`-n`** Type definition file. Type file describes types and their members in the following format -
        `t/name/size`
        `m/offset/name/size[/h:type]`

**`-r`** R/W trace filter file. Contains a list of new line separated addresses, in hex, to enable r/w tracing on.

### Minhash

Performs minhash over the **lines** of a file (or stdin). Produces a length 100 uint64 signature.

```
Usage of minhash:
  -i string
        input file (default stdin)
  -n int
        number of minhashes to use (default 10)
  -c value
        signature files to compare (-c s1.json -c s2.json ...)
```

```bash
$ cat trace1 | minhash > s1.json
$ minhash -i trace2 > s2.json
$ minhash -c s1.json -c s2.json
0.65
```

Ideally you will minhash a newline-delimited trace, then index the N (100) hashes it produces in a database. Then for any trace you can find a similar file by first querying for any other signature that shares a single minhash, then performing a full comparison against that signature.

Commit message:

Update with license header info.

README.md, after:

# MTRACE

MTRACE is a tool to assist with memory tracing.

## Building

### Pintool

First, download Intel's pin kit from https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/developer/articles/tool/pin-a-dynamic-binary-instrumentation-tool.html.

After unpacking it within the `pin` folder, begin compilation of the pintool:
```bash
MTRACE_DIR=pin/source/tools/mtrace
mkdir $MTRACE_DIR
cp mtrace.cpp makefile.rules $MTRACE_DIR
cd $MTRACE_DIR
make
```

Note that building this pintool on Linux, like other pintools, will link statically with libelf and libdwarf, which have LGPL licenses. You are responsible for following the appropriate licenses if you redistribute said tool.

### Golang

As a pre-req, download and install Golang.

Then:
```
go get github.com/dgryski/go-metro github.com/dgryski/go-minhash github.com/dgryski/go-spooky
go build minhash.go
```

## Usage

### MTRACE

Memory tracing swiss army knife.

```
-b  [default 0]
        trace reads and writes
-c  [default 0]
        count of allocations
-cs [default 0]
        describe the callstack hashes
-e  [default ""]
        callstack type to focus on
-f  [default 0]
        log memory related functions (malloc, mmap, brk, etc.) as they are hit");
-g  [default 0]
        address of lexer::getChar function in libpoppler
-i  [default 0]
        log the basic block head address
-l  [default 0]
        list allocs
-m  [default ""]
        image name to restrict rw tracing to
-ms [default ""]
        sequence to match before enabling rw tracing
-o  [default ]
        specify file name for mtrace output
-t  [default 0]
        alloc histogram based on callstack
-x  [default 0]
        alloc histogram based on callstack and size
-y  [default 0]
        alloc histogram based on size
-n  [default ""]
        inference type definition file
-r  [default ""]
        r/w filter file
```

**`-b`** Logs all memory reads and writes to heap objects. Outputs objects as `callstack_hash,size,rw_pattern` at the end of execution.

**`-c`** Count of calls to malloc.

**`-cs`** This will output the callstack for each used callstack hash as it is encountered. Callstacks are output as multiple lines of `callstack_hash=image_hash@relative_address`. Like `-i`, image hashes will be explained automatically when using this.

**`-e`** This restricts tracing to a single callstack hash.

**`-f`** Traces functions related to memory allocations.

**`-g`** This option will print characters as they are returned from `getChar`. The argument is the address of the `lexer::getChar` function in libpoppler. Accepts decimal or `0x`-prefixed hexadecimal.

**`-i`** Traces the instruction pointer at a basic block level. Format is `image_hash@relative_addr`. Image hashes and their input string are output as they are encoutered.

**`-l`** Lists allocations as the occur. Format is (`size,callstack_hash`). Can be used with **`-cs`** to explain the callstack hashes.

**`-m`** This will restrict read/write tracing (`-b`) to a specific image (e.g. libpoppler). It is a substring search. 

**`-ms`** When used, this sequence will need to be output by getChar returns before memory reads and writes will be stored. Required `-g` and `-b`.

**`-o`** Output file name. Default `stdout`.

**`-t`** Allocation histogram based on callstack hash. Can be used with `-cs` to explain the callstack hashes.

**`-x`** Allocation histogram based on callstack hash and size. Can be used with `-cs` to explain the callstack hashes.

**`-y`** Allocation histogram based allocation size. 

**`-n`** Type definition file. Type file describes types and their members in the following format -
        `t/name/size`
        `m/offset/name/size[/h:type]`

**`-r`** R/W trace filter file. Contains a list of new line separated addresses, in hex, to enable r/w tracing on.

### Minhash

Performs minhash over the **lines** of a file (or stdin). Produces a length 100 uint64 signature.

```
Usage of minhash:
  -i string
        input file (default stdin)
  -n int
        number of minhashes to use (default 10)
  -c value
        signature files to compare (-c s1.json -c s2.json ...)
```

```bash
$ cat trace1 | minhash > s1.json
$ minhash -i trace2 > s2.json
$ minhash -c s1.json -c s2.json
0.65
```

Ideally you will minhash a newline-delimited trace, then index the N (100) hashes it produces in a database. Then for any trace you can find a similar file by first querying for any other signature that shares a single minhash, then performing a full comparison against that signature.
